.TH PPC 1 "March 2026" "ppc v0.3.1" "Prompt Policy Compiler"
.SH NAME
ppc \- compile Markdown behavior modules into deterministic prompts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppc
.I <subcommand>
.RI [ flags ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
PPC (Prompt Policy Compiler) compiles small Markdown behavior modules into a single deterministic prompt. It is designed for composing agent behavior policies from modular, version-controlled files.
.PP
Output is written to stdout by default. Same inputs always produce identical output.
.SH MODES
PPC uses three modes aligned with the software lifecycle:
.TP
.B explore
Research, answer questions, recommend approaches. Use for investigating codebases, evaluating tradeoffs, and making decisions without making changes.
.TP
.B build
Implement features, write code, make changes. Use when you have a plan and need to execute it.
.TP
.B ship
Release, deploy, finalize. Use for production releases and low-risk changes. Automatically applies conservative defaults.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B ppc explore \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Generate prompt for exploration mode.
.TP
.B ppc build \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Generate prompt for build mode.
.TP
.B ppc ship \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Generate prompt for ship mode.
.TP
.B ppc doctor \fR[\fIflags\fR]
Validate module structure, dependencies, and tag rules.
.SH GLOBAL FLAGS
.TP
.B \-\-list
List all available modules.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version information.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show help message.
.SH MODE FLAGS
These flags apply to \fBexplore\fR, \fBbuild\fR, and \fBship\fR:
.TP
.BI \-\-conservative
Include conservative trait (boring, stable).
.TP
.BI \-\-creative
Include creative trait (novelty encouraged).
.TP
.BI \-\-terse
Include terse trait (brief, concise).
.TP
.BI \-\-verbose
Include verbose trait (detailed, expansive).
.TP
.BI \-\-revisions \ N
Enable revision policy with budget N.
.TP
.BI \-\-contract \ TYPE
Output contract: \fIcode\fR or \fImarkdown\fR (default: markdown).
.TP
.BI \-\-out \ PATH
Write output to file instead of stdout.
.TP
.BI \-\-explain
Print resolution steps to stderr.
.TP
.BI \-\-hash
Prepend SHA256 prompt-id header to output.
.TP
.BI \-\-prompts \ DIR
Prompts directory (default: prompts).
.TP
.BI \-\-vars \ PATH
YAML or JSON file with variable definitions for {{placeholder}} substitution.
.TP
.BI \-\-profile \ NAME
Load preset configuration from profiles directory.
.SH DOCTOR FLAGS
.TP
.B \-\-strict
Treat warnings as errors.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output machine-readable JSON.
.TP
.B \-\-stats
Include module statistics in JSON output.
.TP
.B \-\-graph
Output Graphviz DOT format.
.TP
.BI \-\-out \ PATH
Write output to file.
.SH VARIABLE SUBSTITUTION
PPC supports Jinja2-style variable substitution in module content:
.PP
.B {{object.property}}
.RS
Replaced with value from \-\-vars file.
.RE
.PP
Example vars.yaml:
.EX
goals:
  target_return: 20.0
  horizon: 24
.EE
.PP
In module:
.EX
Target return: {{goals.target_return}}%
.EE
.PP
Becomes:
.EX
Target return: 20.0%
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I prompts/
Directory containing Markdown modules.
.TP
.I prompts/rules.yml
Defines exclusive groups for keyed tags.
.TP
.I prompts/base.md
Base module included in all compilations.
.TP
.I prompts/modes/
Mode-specific modules (explore.md, build.md, ship.md).
.TP
.I prompts/traits/
Optional trait modules (conservative.md, creative.md, terse.md, verbose.md).
.TP
.I prompts/contracts/
Output format contracts (markdown.md, code.md).
.TP
.I prompts/policies/
Policy modules (revisions.md, self_score.md).
.SH EXAMPLES
Generate an exploration prompt:
.EX
ppc explore --creative --vars ./goals.yaml
.EE
.PP
Generate a build prompt for code output:
.EX
ppc build --conservative --contract code --revisions 2
.EE
.PP
Generate a ship prompt with hash:
.EX
ppc ship --terse --hash --out AGENTS.md
.EE
.PP
Validate prompt repository:
.EX
ppc doctor --strict
.EE
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
General error.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid arguments or configuration error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR ppc-docs (7)
.PP
Full documentation: https://github.com/bkuri/ppc
.SH AUTHOR
Bernardo Kuri <github@bkuri.com>
